SINGAPORE, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Asian stocks advanced in morning trading on Thursday after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates and U.S. and Chinese leaders met to thrash out a trade deal, with the Bank of Japan also due to decide on interest rates imminently.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan (.MIAPJ0000PUS), opens new tab was last up 0.5%, while U.S. S&P 500 e-mini futures moved 0.4% higher after stocks on Wall Street posted a slim loss to snap a four-day winning streak.
Global markets are in the midst of a string of central bank decisions that will give clues about the path ahead for interest rates as the Trump administration imposes blanket tariffs on foreign imports.
"There's a stack to digest, and the Bank of Japan decision shouldn't be forgotten as something that could rock the region should they say or do something hawkish today," said Kyle Rodda, senior market analyst at Capital.com in Melbourne.
"The U.S.-China trade deal could reignite animal spirits although I suspect that with the rally we've had this week on Wall Street, and the boost that's given the Asian region, a lot of the good news is priced in."
U.S. President Donald Trump is currently meeting Chinese leader Xi Jinping in South Korea. U.S. negotiators have signalled they seek a return to a fragile trade war truce, but tensions remain high and longer-term economic irritants will likely persist between the geopolitical rivals.
"After a fair bit of action in the first couple days of this week, we'll probably finish the central banking story with a bit of a whimper in the next 24 hours, with probably not much happening either from the BOJ or the ECB," said Sally Auld, chief economist at National Australia Bank in Sydney in a podcast.
The Nikkei 225 (.N225), opens new tab fluctuated between gains and losses and was last 0.1% higher ahead of a decision from the Bank of Japan on Thursday at which the central bank is widely expected to keep interest rates steady.
Against the yen, the U.S. dollar was last 0.2% weaker at 152.455 yen after remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent calling for speedier rate hikes to avoid weakening the currency too much, which analysts said may affect the BOJ's communication on the future pace of rate hikes.
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates on Wednesday by a quarter of a percentage point as expected, but the U.S. central bank's new policy statement included several references to the lack of official data during the ongoing federal government shutdown, and Fed Chair Jerome Powell told reporters later that policymakers are likely to become more cautious if it deprives them of further job and inflation reports.
Traders have slashed their forecasts of a 25-basis-point rate cut next month, which had been viewed as a near-certainty earlier. Fed funds futures now imply a 67.8% probability that the Fed will hold rates at its next meeting on December 10, compared with a 9.1% chance on Wednesday, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool.
The yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury bond was last trading around a three-week high of 4.068%, up 1 basis point compared with a previous close of 4.058%.
The dollar index , which measures the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, edged back from a two-week high, down 0.1% at 99.032. Gold was last up 0.2% at $3,937.19 per ounce.
The euro was last 0.1% firmer at $1.1617 ahead of a policy decision by the European Central Bank later in the day at which it is expected to leave rates on hold for a third meeting in a row.
Elsewhere, the KOSPI index (.KS11), opens new tab jumped 1.1% after Trump and South Korean President Lee Jae Myung finalised details of their trade deal.
Shares in Samsung Electronics (005930.KS), opens new tab surged 4.3% after it reported on Thursday a 32% rise in third-quarter operating profit.
Corporate earnings season is fuelling fresh anxiety among investors over the cost of the AI buildout, even as the U.S. economy appears to remain in rude health, putting pressure on tech megacap stocks that account for the biggest weighting in the S&P 500 Index (.SPX), opens new tab.
Meta (META.O), opens new tab on Wednesday forecast "notably larger" capital expenses next year as its revenues beat market estimates, while Microsoft's (MSFT.O), opens new tab spending on artificial intelligence infrastructure soared to a record of nearly $35 billion in the September quarter. Shares of both companies slumped.
However, rival tech giant and Google parent Alphabet (GOOGL.O), opens new tab bucked the trend, with shares rising in after-hours trading after it beat revenue expectations.
In energy markets, Brent crude was last down 0.5% at $64.62 per barrel.